A waterfall model is used to plan the project of developing a Course User Registration System Emulator (CURSE).
With the given requirement for the system, CURSE can be put on a timeline with a clear view of beginning to end tasks.

1.	Requirements analysis and definition
A user interface is needed for the user to be able to interact with the software. At the interface level a user will need to log in to determine the type of user they are. Different users like students, instructors, and admins will have different capabilities. The student can register, look at the available courses, and view their own schedule. The instructor will see courses and the roster for their courses. The admin has permission to edit everything. The different users will be kept in a database of users. To register for courses there will have to be a database with courses and relevant information such as CRN, course name, and instructor. The software should be able to handle multiple semesters, course time conflicts, printing out schedules, and scheduling preferences. 

2.	System and software design
The software will run on a local PC. The local host will host the database for the application to use. The local database can be hosted on a web server with the use of XAMPP. XAMPP is a good choice to work with because it has cross-platform capabilities. The UI of the program can be accomplished in Java in the console on an IDE with basic system input and output statements. Java has object-oriented capabilities to use the data from the databases well. The code will be hosted on github so proper version control best practices can take place. 

3.	Implementation and unit testing
Each software component will be fully developed before moving on to the next component. The database for users should be built first. This should be able to hold 100 students, 10 instructors, and 1 admin. This will be done in subtasks by making three different types of user that contain different data. A constraint is needed here to make sure that a student is taking the right number of courses, not too little or too many. The database of courses will be built next. This will be set up using CRN’s of the courses as the primary key, the instructor information will pull form the database of users and the course name and time will be set manually. There will need to be a counter on the courses for registered students, so it is known when the class is full. The login and user interface will be completed next. The UI will be able to be tested with using the user and course databases. The different functionalities of the different types of users will have to be fully tested. 

4.	Integration and system testing
Many units will be written independently of one another. On github, the master branch of the code can be branched off into a feature branch to be merged back in once the feature is completed. Each independent software unit has been tested on its own to the extent of its constraints. It is unknown if merging each unit together will cause conflicts. After the software units have been merged together a full regression effort will take place to ensure the absence of any merge conflicts. If any issues are found, they can be addressed and retested. 

5.	Operation and maintenance 
This process is ideal for one-time releases. If any bugs are found after the software has been rolled out into production, or if the requirements change, the software will have to be updated to maintain the integrity of the system. 

